KNIGHT OF THE SERPENT.
 15th Degree.
 The Senate is divided in two parts, and represents the Court of Binai. The First Part, the exterior, and the Second Part the interior of the Tabernacle of Moses, which is adorned with the banners of Israel as in the Fourteenth Degree. In the East is a transparency of the Burning Bush, with the Ineffable namein the centre. The hangings may be red and blue. The sash is red, the jewel is 2 Tau cross with a serpent of bronze entwined thereon. The Sublime Grand Commander represents Moses, and is styled, Most Powerful ; the Senior Knight Interpreter, Eleazer, the son of Aaron, and styled, Grand Pontiff ; the Junior Knight Interpreter, Joshua, and is styled, Commander of the Host; the
 Knight of Eloquence, Ithamar, son of Aaron; the Knight Mar- shal is styled, Examiner ; the Knight of Introduction, Conduc- tor; the Knight Accompanior, Captain of the Guard.
 OPENING.
 SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.—Strikes 333. Officers rise. Grand Pontiff, what is now the hour? SENIOR ENIGHT INTERPRETER.— . Most Powerful, it is one hour past meridian. BUBLIME GRAND QOMMANDER.— It is time then to attend to the wants of our brethren. Tlustrious Knight Captain of the Host, you will first ascertain if the Guards are at their posts, and our Council secure from intrusion.

 ------------

 JUNIOR KNIGHT.— Illustrious Knight Marshal, you will ascertain if the Guards are at their posts, and if we are secure from intrusion. He ascertains by inspection and reports. KNIGHT MAR8HAL.— Illustrious Knight Captain of the Host, the guards are at their posts, and we are secure from intrusion. JUNIOR ENIGHT.— Most Powerful, the Guards are at their posts and we are secure from intrusion. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.—- Illustrious Knight Captain of the Host, you will ascertain if all present are Knights of the Brazen Serpent. JONIOR ENIGHT.— Hlustrious KnightMarshal, you will ascertain if all present are Knights of the Brazen Serpent. Knight Marshal receives the P.W. from each one present. ENIGHT MARSHAL.— Illustrious Knight Captain of the Host, all present have communicated to me the P.W.ofthe Knights of the Brazen Serpent, and I avouch for them. JUNIOR KNIGHT.— Advance and communicate it to me. He doesso. JUNIOR KNIGHT.— Most Powerful, all present have given the Pass Word of Knights of the Brazen Serpent, and are avouched for as such. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.—Strikes 333. All rise. It is mete and proper to invoke a blessing from T.S.A.0.T.U. upon our present Assembly. Give aftention, Illustrious Knights, while our Illustrious Knight of Eloquence performs that important duty. All kneel facing the Orient.

 -------------

 PRAYER.
 Almighty Lord God, whose never failing providence orders all things, both in heaven and upon earth, we humbly beseech Thee to put away from usall hurtful things; give us Faith to trust in Thy infinite wisdom and goodness, and do Thou subdue the evils by whieh we are surrounded. Give us, we beseech Thea, ₪ confiding Faith in Thy Divine Providence ; may we never waver or be cast down ; and when overwhelmed with the evils that surround us, do Thou in mercy stretch forth thine Almighty arm and scatter the evils which beset us, and restore Thy chosen ones to health and happiness here and hereafter. Amen. ALL.— Glory to Thee, Oh Lord! Glory to Thy Name! Glory to Thy Works ! Knights sing the Ode. 1. God be merciful unto us and bless us; And show usthe light of Thy countenance, And be merciful unto us. 2. That Thy way may be known on earth. Thy saving health amongall nations. 8. Ollet the nations rejoice and be glad; For Thou shalt judge the folk righteously, And govern the nations upon earth. 4. Let the people praise Thee, O God ; Yea, let all the people praise Thee. 5. Thenshallthe earth bring forth her increase; And God, even our own God, Shall give us His blessing. 6. Adonai shall bless us; And all the ends of the world shall bless Him. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.—Strikes 333. Dlustrious Knights, observe , the Orient and attend to giving the S. *15*. Accordingly, in the name of T.8.A.0.T.U., and under the auspices of the Sovereign Sanctuary of Antient and Primitive Masonry, in and
 ----------

 for Great Britain and Ireland, I declare the labours of this Senate in activity on the Fifteenth Degree of Masonry, Knight of the Brazen Serpent, for the
 propagation of Wisdom, Science and Truth. Tlus- frious Knight of Eloquence, attend at the Altar and
 unfold the sacred Book of Laws. Illustrious Knight Guardian of the Sanctuary, inform the Sentinel, and if there are any visiting Knights invite them to enter.
 RECEPTION.
 The Neophyte is prepared as a Knight of the Tabernacle, end led into first apartment by the Knight of Introduction, when he is accosted by the Knight Examiner or Marshal. ENIGHT MARSHAL.— Stand, who seeks to pass ? ENIGHT OF INTRODUCTION.— Friends. ENIGHT MARSHAL.— Halt and communicate the Pass Word. ENIGHT OF INTRODUCTION.— . Wehave been wandering in the wilderness for many days and haveit not. KNIGHT MARSHAL. Guards, assist me to secure these spies and convey them to the Tent of our Most Powerful Grand Master. The Neophyte is immediately hoodwinked and a chain put upon him, and he is, with the Knight of Introduction, marched about the room in a serpentine course, finally he is halted at the Tent of Most Powerful Grand Master, and the Knight Marshal gives the Battery 55555-333-1. JUNIOR ENIGHT.— Whocomes here ? KNIGHT MARSHAL.— Two prisoners, who have been captured as spies by the guards. JUNIOR KNIGHT.— Whoare they ?

 -----


 KNIGHT MARSHAL.— They claim to be friends and brethren, who have been wandering in the wilderness. JUNIOR ENIGHT.— What seek ye ? ENIGHT OF INTBODUOTION.— Liberty and Protection. JUNIOB KNIGHT.— You must wait until the Most Powerful is apprised of your presence and desires. Guards, you will see that they do not escape. The Neophyte and Knight of Introduction are marched
 outside the Council Chamber where the hoodwink is re- moved, and they are kept guarded.
 JUNIO“ KNIGHT.— Most Powerful, there are without a detachment of the Guards, who have in charge two prisoners whom they have arrested as spies. SUBLIME) GRAND COMMANDER.— Whoare they? JUNIOR ENIGHT.— They profess to be friends and brethren, who have been wandering in the wilderness for many days, and as such claim our protection. SUBLIME GRAND OOMMANDEB.— Let them be admitted to our presence.
 Music. The curtain is drawn aside, the Knight of In- troduction and Neophyte are admitted under guard, and
 are marched to the Council consisting of the representatives of Moses, ELEAZER &nd JosSHUA. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Strangers, from whence came you ? KNIGHT OF INTRODUCTION.— From wandering in the wilderness where we have been lost for many days, encountering manyevils and privations, and having escaped the dangerous serpents which infest the wilderness; in seeking the camp of safety, we were surprised by your guards, arrested as
 ---

 spies and loaded with chains, and have by them been brought before you. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Are you not spies of the Amorites ? ENIGHT OF INTRODUCTION.— We are not, but of your brethren, and seek your protection. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.—
 By what means can you satisfy us of the truthful- hess of your declarations ?
 Neophyte and Knight of Introduction give the signs of the various degrees, Knights of Rose Croix and Tabernacle. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER,— What is now your desire ? ENIGHT OF INTRODUCTION.— To be restored to liberty, with enrollment under the bannersofthe order of Knights of the Brazen Serpent. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Should we grant you the favour you ask, do you promise fealty and obedience in the future? Both answer. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Before we can grant you these favours, it will be necessary for you to enter, with us, into a covenant vow; one which will not conflict with your duties as menor Brethren. Do you consent to this? Both answer. Guards, remove those chains. This is done. Illustrious Knight Grand Pontiff, you will lead them to our Sacred Altar, and there receive their solemn vows. To order, Illustrious Knights, and let the Triangle be formed. Strikes 333. This is done, and the Neophyte is led to the altar, still under guard, and kneels. The Grand Pontiff, or Senior Knight, administers the O.B. To the glory of the Sublime Architect of the Universe. In the name of the Sovereign Sanctuary of Aatient and

 -----

 Pximitivo Mesonry, in and for Grest Britain and Ireland. Salutation on all pointa of the Triangle. Reapect to the er. I, A.B., of my own free will and accord, hereby and hereon, most solemnly and sincerely promise and vow that I will for ever conceal and never reveal any of the secrets or mysteries of the Order of the Knights of the Brazen Serpent, to any person whatsoever, except to him or them unto whom the samedoof right belong, thatisto say, to a regular Knight of the Order, orto one who has been duly elected to be received as such, and
 not unto him or them except in such form and man- ner or at such time or place asthe Rules of the Order
 of the Brazen Serpent may warrant. I furthermore promise and vow, that I will always remain faithful to promote the interests and purposes of the Order of Knights of the Brazen Serpent, to defend their rights and maintain perpetual allegiance to them so long as T do live, and I will succour and defend each and every
 Knight of the Order of the Brazen Serpent, when as- sailed by an enemy, sickness or distress, I knowing
 them to be such, and they applying to me in a proper manner, or on my discovering the same by any other reliable means whatever, I finding them worthy.
 All of these, my covenant vows, I do promise to faith- fully perform, the Almighty Adonai being my helper,
 under no less penalty than that of being stung in my heart by the most venomous serpent, and thus die a fearful death, should I ever violate, in whole or in part, this my solemn covenant vow. Salutes the Book. SENIOR KNIGHT.—
 My Brethren and Mlustrious Knights, your induc- tion into the body ofa Council of Knights of the Order
 of the Brazen Serpent, is intended to impress upon
 you the necessity of remaining faithful to the teach- ings of our venerated Rite; as it is an illustration of
 the condition to which the children of Israel were

 ------

 reduced by their persistent deviation from the teach- ings of their fathers, and the revealed will of God,
 who brought many afflictions upon them because they forsook His divine law. While journeying through the wilderness, many left the camp of safety and were lost ; others profaned the privileges that God had vouchsafed to grant unto them,for the correction of which, his powerfularm was
 frequently required for their subjugation and restora- tion. Prominent among these trials was that their
 tents were infested with poisonous serpents, which bit the transgressors so that many died; upon which the people went to Moses saying:—We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against thee ; and Moses prayed for the people.
 To appease or subvert the evils produced by disobe- dience, Moses, at God’s commands, caused a Brazen
 Serpent to be made and set up on a cross, or T, that
 all who were bitten might look upon the Brazen Ser- pent and, by Faith, be healed. Every one who looked
 upon it, was directed to pronounce the word hatathi, I have sinned. And it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass he lived. Of this we have an account in the Book of Numbers, to which I would call your especial attention. Numbers xxi. 6—9. The Travellers are conducted from the altar to the Orient; while passing, the following Ode is sung. While Thee we seek, protecting Power, Be our vain wishes still'd ; And maythis consecrated hour With better hopes be filled. In each event of life, how clear Thy ruling hand we see } Each blessing to our souls is dear, Because conferred by Thee. My lifted eyes, without & tear, The brazen form shall see ; My steadfast heart shall know no fear; That heart shall rest on Thee,


 -----


 SUBLIME GRAND OOMMANDEB.— I wil now invest you with the insignia of your degree ; which you perceive alludes symbolically to the circumstances upon which the order is founded. The Knights of the Order of the Brazen Serpent, have certain means of recognition, whereby one Knight may know another wherever they may meet. They have a Salutation Sign, Sign of Recognition, Token, Pass Word, and Sacred Word. The Salutation Sign, is to be given to the Most Powerful Grand Master upon entering or retiring from a Council of Illustrious Knights of the Order of the Brazen Serpent, and is given thus
 The Sign of Recognition, is to be used when under- going an examination, and while we cannot too
 earnestly impress upon your mind the necessity for your becoming familiar with it, we must at the same time warn you against too free an exhibition ofit, lest & knowledge of it becomes imparted to those who are not legally entitled to it ; it is given thus by placing the first finger and thumb together.
 The Token or Grip, is an essential in your investi- ture as it will serve to aid you in finding companion- ship among courteous Knights wherever you may
 meet them; it is necessary you should be cautious in its use; it is given thus The Pass Word, is the name of the Dlustrious Knight, who, in the time ofthe Crusades, founded the
 Order of the Brazen Serpent, for the relief of pil- grims to Jerusalem ; it can only be properly given in
 Latin. It is required to be given when a Council of Knights of the Order of the Brazen Serpent is about to be opened ; it is The Sacred Word, is only used in connection with the Sign of Recognition, and as you will perceive, refers to the exodus of the descendants of Abraham

 ----

 from Egyptian bondage. The particular events of which are recorded in the Book of Numbers, which I would commendto your observation and study. Illustrious Knight Captain of the Guard, make the usual proclamation ? OAPTAIN OF GUARD.—Gives the Acolade saying :-— To the Glory of the Sublime Architect of the Universe. In the name of the Sovereign Sanctuary of Antient and Primitive Masonry, in and for Great Britain and Ireland. Salutation on all points of the Triangle. Respect to the Order. Arise, Knight of the Brazen Serpent, which I now proclaim you, and I call upon all present to recognise you in your capacity as such and render you aid and protection in case of need. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Join me, Dlustrious Knights, in saluting our new made Knight. Together. Battery is given.
 This ends the Degree of Knight of the Brazen Ser- pent, with the exception of the Charge, to which you
 will listen. Strikes 1. All seated. DISCOURSE.
 Tllustrious Knight, your advancement thus far in Masonry, has taught you that in our Antient and
 Primitive Rite the letter of the legends of anti- quity, were by our Primitive Brethren disregarded
 &nd viewed only as myths, veiling from vulgar minds, important truths. It is needless to dwell on the myth of the Serpent tempter of Eve, which the old Hermetic philosophers viewed as a symbolical image of sensuality. In the earliest ages amongst rude and uncivilized men, the Serpent or Dragon, was regarded as sacred ; according to the writers of Antiquity, the very foundation of Greece, that intellectual daughter

 -----


 of Egypt, was cemented by the blood of the Dragon or Serpent, when Cadmus, having slain him and plucked his teeth and sown them, there sprang forth from these seeds, armed warriors, from whom were
 afterwards to be born the sages and heroes of anti- quity. This perchance may refer mythologically to
 the advent of the Ophitic symbolism into Greece, and the application of the serpent to represent the Priesthood of antiquity, who were told to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves; for we notice that after his death, Cadmus, like Thoth among the Egyptians, was transformed into a snake and adored under that form ; still further, when the country began to be reduced to some order, Draco, that is the dragon, was first monarch at Athens. In short, the histographers and logographers are replete with anecdote and illustrations of the worship as it then existed, depicting in their sober sincerity the state of things which prevailed, even with the savage tribes of Africa ; describing their serpents as the guardians or palladiums ofthe cities, and as beings reverenced with every expression of abject submission. Their entire
 mythology aboundswith similiar allusions and circum- stances, wherein the serpent personates a most im- portant character. Again,the adventures of Hercules
 in his childhood, the death of Laocoon, the gaolers in the gardens of Hesperides, and the thousand fabulous grottos defended by the snake in some one of his varied forms, are illustrations familiar to all. As to the Latin nation, religion had become so modified up to the period of their settlement, that their mythology embodies fewer circumstances expressive of its ophitie origin than other nations springing more directly from the Orientals;
 still they appropriated much from the
 neighbouring Greeks and Egyptians. The rapid extension of Roman and Grecian power, and with it an intercourse with the then known world, afforded but so many facilities for the propagation of

 ----

 their religious ideas ; and, although these seldom en- forced the unwilling acceptance of opinions and beliefs
 upon their conquered nations,still, there must have resulted from the mere communication a reciprocal influence, as might be surmised, in favour of the mightier minds. Thus the Muscovite and Pole finally adopted a most debased form of worship, adoring the serpent as a household divinity, like the lares and penates of the classic world, decreeing it a penalty of death to injure one, however venomousin its character, and surrendering up to them the unrestrained freedom of their hearths. Almost all of the vipers obtained protection and reverence in an equal degree. But of the divisions of Europe, Scandinavia, embracing the Swedes, Fins, Norwegians, Danes, &c., is particularly rich in mysterious legends of this character. Its mythology abounds in allusions to, and its fables are filled with exploits of, the serpent. Lok, the genius of evil, is styled the father of the great serpent ; the standards of many exhibit the same emblem, and
 the few hierogloyphic remains that have been dis- covered, bear witness of the prominent character it
 assumed in their belief. The only differenceto be re- marked, isthe variation in the form of the reptile, which
 now assumed the most monstrous and terrific powers, breathing flames and pestilence from its distended jaws, and expressing revenge and utter slaughter in its looks. This fanciful form became a particular favourite with the earlier Christian writers, whence have resulted the heroic legends of St. Patrick, St.
 Michael, St. George, and St. Margaret, and the extra- ordinary wonders depicted in the stories of the Middle
 Ages. That such was the policy of the founders of most religions is not a matter of astonishment, since to the uneducated mind the awful and sublime are to be represented less in things invisible than in natural forms exaggerated into terrors, in physical events partaking of the purely tragic character; in appeals,
 ------

 in short, rather to the eye than to the subtle essence of the mind. Thusit seems to them that God rather afflicta nations in his wrath, than seeks to raise up prophets in their midst to instruct and forewarn them. he Indian Christna is fabled to have destroyed an immense serpent with a hundred heads, which infested the waters of the Yamuna, andis interpreted as symbolical of the destruction of evilinfluences. In America, the most ancient inhabitants, the Toltecs, erected an immense serpentine mound of that reptile
 in the act of vomiting the cosmic egg, an hierogly- phical symbol, common to them and the Egyptians,
 and denoting the birth of all created matter, from the universal Spirit or Kneph. At length, we enter into Gaul and Britain with thia worship, which, like the symbolical representation of the Chinese, showing a dragon, vomiting a flood after a fleeing man, had literally encircled the earth. The
 Druid worship, so famous in antiquity, was an off- spring of the ophitic symbols ; the same familiar snake
 was adored not only as a symbol of light and life, but independently, in its own animal nature, as a serpent. So close, indeed, are the affinities of their gods and goddesses, so perfect the exposition of that creed that many incline to the opinion that the intercourse between these Isles and the ancient world was far more intimate than we are accustomed to think. Their divinities are variously pictured under the form
 of the snake, whilst still further to increase and ce- ment the connection of ideas, ‘‘draig” signifies both
 serpent and a supreme god. Their many fables, among others that of ‘‘Uter Pendragon,” contain explicit and conclusive evidence of their worship, with its ambiguous reference to the **gliding king " pursuing the ‘fair one,” even as in the garden of Eden the treacherous angel followed the credulous
 Eve. The same peculiarity to which we have re- ferred in other nations, that of attributing healing

 ----
 powers to the serpent, is abundantly manifested
 among the Druids. As the Druid religion was estab- lished in Ireland and Gaul, there, no less than in
 England, were examples afforded of the old creed.
 The story of St. Patrick banishing the toads and ser- pents from Ireland has, with a great deal of ingenuity,
 been referred to his opposition to the existing faith and his determination to eradicate its pernicious doctrines from the minds of the people ; the ruling divinities in
 both countries are represented as armed with the cadu- ceus of Mercury, or associated in some distinct man- ner with the serpent, either as a symbol or attribute ;
 the same low superstitions and their resultent cruel- ties and barbarism are reproduced. Remainsofthe
 Druidical faith yet linger in Britain and Ireland, and were derived from the same centre a8 our own Oriental Rite. The cycle is thus completed, but much remains untold, were it but the theory of the origin of the serpent worship, or its practice, as it exists in our own times. We have only to recall the numerous current stories of the fascination of the snake, its
 mesmeric and medicinal powers, the wonderous ac- counts of the ubiquitous sea-serpent that startle the
 world so frequently, and tales of a similar character, to understand that the old idea is not entirely dead nor the old terror entirely cast aside. In alchemical language the term serpent, and green lion, was used to denote the seed or first principle of all matter. These philosophers still further embellished their work with serpent myths, symbols and fables, as we have here given them. But the fact is, that the original hero of all these dragon stories, was Osiris or Mythras, destroying Typhon or Ahrimanes. In the Ritual of the Egyptian Book of the Dead, the good God-Man, Heseri, is symbolically and physically, light, and the Sun; whilst similarly, the evil principla is darkness, and the great dragon, Apophos, fighting:
 ------

 for the destruction of man’s divine soul. The subject affords us a fine illustration of credulity, whether indulged by minds sottish and brutal, or active and refined. Unfortunately, in all religions, the element of fear has entered too largely; and to repent in order to be saved, is a precept more attentively followed than to do, in order to have done. And so of old, it hung like a dark mist over the intellectual sight of the world, at the dawn of science. But the sun rose at
 last, blood-stained, it is true, and the glorious pros- pects began to be revealed. Far back lay the moun- tains clad in purple and gold, around all flashed a
 golden light, whilst beyond the unfathomable vistas of space were opened, glittering with worlds through
 all immensity. And that sun was the light of know- ledge, and those glowing mountain tops the past, and
 the golden glow and heat the present, and the future lies with those worlds dimly seen and known. For the past there is charity, for the present there is hope, for the future there is faith. This ends the fifteenth Degree, Knight of the Serpent.
 CLOSING. SUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Tlustrious Knight Grand Pontiff, what is now the hour ? SENIOR KNIGHT.— The sixth hour past meridian. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— If no further business demands our attention it is time to cloge our labours. Strikes 333. All rise and sing Ode. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER.— Illustrious Knight Captain of the Host, you will inform the Captain of the Guard, that we are about to close this Council of Knights of the Order of the


 -----

 Brazen Serpent, direct him to inform the Sentinel of our intention. JUNIOR ENIGRT.— Illustrious Knight Captain of the Guard, you will inform the Sentinel that the Most Powerful is about to close this Council of Knights of the Order of the Brazen Serpent. Direct him to take due notice and be governed accordingly. He does so, and reports. ENIGHT MARSHAL.— Illustrious Knight Captain of the Host, your order has been obeyed. JUNIOR ENIGHT.— Most Powerful, the Sentinel has been informed of your intention, and the Illustrious Knights await your further pleasure. BUBLIME GRAND COMMANDER. —Strikes 333. Attention, Ulustrious Knights ; observe the Orient, and attend to giving the B. *15*. Accordingly, in the name of T.8.AÀ.0.T.U., and under the auspices of the Sovereign Sanctuary, I declare this Council of Knights of the Order of the Brazen Serpent duly closed. Nlustrious Knight of Eloquence, attend at the
 altar and close the Sacred Volume. And now, Ilus- trious Knights, depart in peace, and may the blessing
 of Adonai be upon us.